# HW Assignment #2
###### By [Edward Seim](https://twitter.com/sirseim)

### Problem 5.1
> What's the difference between a component-based architecture and a service-oriented architecture?

A component-based architecture loosely coupled components that work with each other. A service-oriented architecture is similar, except the different pieces are on separate hardware, communicating between each other over a network.

### Problem 5.2
> Suppose you're building a phone application that lets you play tic-tac-toe against a simple computer opponent. It will display high scores stored on the phone, not in an external database. Which architectures would be most appropriate and why?

A simple self-contained application would be best for this service as no information needs to be shared with other users or devices. In technical terms, this is a monolithic architecture.

### Problem 5.4
> Repeat question 3 [after thinking about it; it repeats question 2 for a chess game] assuming the chess program lets two users play against each other over an Internet connection.

Answer

### Problem 5.6
> What kind of database structure and maintenance should the `ClassyDraw` application use?

A simple file based system would work best. All the work pertaining to a particular drawing can be stored in a single file and does not need to be shared with any other drawing/file.

### Problem 5.8
> Draw a state machine diagram to let a program read floating point numbers in scientific notation as in +37 or -12.3e+17 (which means -12.3 x 1017). Allow both E and e for the exponent symbol. [Jeez, is this like Dr. Dorin's DFAs, or what???]

Answer

### Problem 6.1
> Consider the `ClassyDraw` classes `Line`, `Rectangle`, `Ellipse`, `Star`, and `Text`. What properties do these classes all share? What properties do they not share? Are there any properties shared by some classes and not others? Where should the shared and non-shared properties be implemented?

Answer

### Problem 6.2
> Draw an inheritance diagram showing the properties you identified for Exercise 1. (Create parent classes as needed, and don't forget the `Drawable` class at the top.)

Answer

### Problem 6.3
> The following list gives the properties of several business-oriented classes.
> - Customer — Name, Phone, Address, BillingAddress, CustomerID
> - Hourly — Name, Phone, Address, EmployeeID, HourlyRate
> - Manager — Name, Phone, Address, EmployeeID, Office, Salary, Boss, Employees
> - Salaried — Name, Phone, Address, EmployeeID, Office, Salary, Boss
> - Supplier — Name, Phone, Address, Products, SupplierID
> - VicePresident — Name, Phone, Address, EmployeeID, Office, Salary, Managers
> Assuming a `Supplier` is someone who supplies products for your business, draw an inheritance diagram showing the relationships among these classes. (Hint: Add extra classes if necessary.)

Answer

### Problem 6.6
> Suppose your company has many managerial types such as department manager, project manager, and division manager. You also have multiple levels of vice president, some of whom report to other manager types. How could you combine the `Salaried`, `Manager`, and `VicePresident` types you used in Exercise 3? Draw the new inheritance hierarchy.

Answer
