# HW Assignment #3
###### By [Edward Seim](https://twitter.com/sirseim)

### Problem 7.1
> The greatest common divisor (GCD) of two integers is the largest integer that evenly divides them both. For example, the GCD of 84 and 36 is 12, because 12 is the largest integer that evenly divides both 84 and 36. You can learn more about the GCD and the Euclidean algorithm, which you can find at [en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euclidean_algorithm](en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euclidean_algorithm). (Don't worry about the code if you can't understand it. Just focus on the comments.)(Hint: It should take you only a few seconds to fix these comments. Don't make a career out of it.)
> ```java
> // Use Euclid's algorithm to calculate the GCD.
> private long GCD( long a, long b )
> {
>   // Get the absolute value of a and b
>   a = Math.abs( a );
>   b = Math.abs( b );

>   //Repeat until we're done
>   for( ; ; )
>   {
>     // Set remainder to the remainder of a / b
>     long remainder = a % b;
>     // If remainder is 0, we're done.  Return b.
>     If( remainder == 0 ) return b;
>     // Set a = b and b = remainder.
>     a = b;
>     b = remainder;
>   };
> }
> ```

```java
// Use Euclid's algorithm to calculate the GCD.
// See en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euclidean_algorithm.
private long GCD( long a, long b )
{
  a = Math.abs( a );
  b = Math.abs( b );

  for( ; ; )
  {
    long remainder = a % b;
    If( remainder == 0 ) return b;
    a = b;
    b = remainder;
  };
}
```

### Problem 7.2
> Under what two conditions might you end up with the bad comments shown in the previous code?

The programmer may have taken a top-down design to its logical conclusion where the code is described in excruciating detail. The alternate reason might be adding them after writing the code and just describe each statement instead of why its doing what its doing.

### Problem 7.4
> How could you apply offensive programming to the modified code you wrote for exercise 3? [Yes, I know that problem wasn't assigned, but if you take a look at it you can still do this exercise.]

It validates the inputs and the result, and the Debug.Assert method throws an exception if there is a problem.

### Problem 7.5
> Should you add error handling to the modified code you wrote for Exercise 4?

You can add it, but you really want the calling code to handle any errors.

### Problem 7.7
> Using top-down design, write the highest level of instructions that you would use to tell someone how to drive your car to the nearest supermarket. (Keep it at a very high level.) List any assumptions you make.

1. Find car.
1. Open car.
1. Start car.
1. Back out of parking space.
1. Turn to right.
1. Drive toward and through the garage exit.
1. Turn left down alley. Drive to road.
1. Turn left at road. Drive to highway.
1. Turn left at highway. Drive through 2 stop lights.
1. Turn left at stop light. Drive until supermarket parking lot.
1. Turn left into parking lot.
1. Find parking spot.
1. Turn into parking spot. Park.
1. Go buy food.

Assumptions:
1. Car is parked head in.
1. There's gas in the car.
1. Driver has a proper driver's license.
1. There is empty parking spaces at the supermarket.
1. The supermarket is open.

### Problem 8.1
> Two integers are _relatively prime_ (or _coprime_) if they have no common factors other than 1. For example, 21 = 3 X 7 and 35 = 5 X 7 are _not_ relatively prime because they are both divisible by 7. By definition -1 and 1 are relatively prime to every integer, and they are the only numbers relatively prime to 0.

> Suppose you've written an efficient `IsRelativelyPrime` method that takes two integers between -1 million and 1 million as parameters and returns `true` if they are relatively prime. Use either your favorite programming language or pseudocode (English that sort of looks like code) to write a method that tests the `IsRelativelyPrime` method. (Hint: You may find it useful to write another method that also tests two integers to see if they are relatively prime.)

```javascript
let isRelativelyPrime = (a, b) => {
  [a, b] = [Math.abs(a), Math.abs(b)];
  if (a === 1 || b === 1) return true;
  if (a === 0 || b === 0) return true;

  const min = Math.min(a, b);
  for (let i = 2; i <= min; i++) {
    if (a % x === 0 && b % x === 0) return false;
  }
  return true;
};
```

- 1,000 trials
  - pick random `a` and `b`
  - pick random `a`, compare to self
  - pick random `a`, compare to:
    - 1
    - -1
    - 0
    - 1,000,000
    - -1,000,000
  - pick random `b`, compare to:
    - 1
    - -1
    - 0
    - 1,000,000
    - -1,000,000
  - `a` = 1,000,000 `b` = -1,000,000
  - `b` = 1,000,000 `a` = -1,000,000

### Problem 8.3
> What testing techniques did you use to write the test method in Exercise 1? (Exhaustive, black-box, white-box, or gray-box?) Which ones _could_ you use and under what circumstances? [Please justify your answer with a short paragraph to explain.]

This is black-box testing because testing is done independently of the internal implementation.

### Problem 8.5
> the following code shows a C# version of the `AreRelativelyPrime` method and the `GCD` method it calls.
> ```java
> // Return true if a and b are relatively prime.
> private bool AreRelativelyPrime( int a, int b )
> {
>   // Only 1 and -1 are relatively prime to 0.
>   if( a == 0 ) return ((b == 1) || (b == -1));
>   if( b == 0 ) return ((a == 1) || (a == -1));

>   int gcd = GCD( a, b );
>   return ((gcd == 1) || (gcd == -1));
> }

> // Use Euclid's algorithm to calculate the
> // greatest common divisor (GCD) of two numbers.
> // See https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euclidean_algorighm
> private int GCD( int a, int b )
> {
>   a = Math.abs( a );
>   b = Math.abs( b );

>   // if a or b is 0, return the other value.
>   if( a == 0 ) return b;
>   if( b == 0 ) return a;

>   for( ; ; )
>   {
>     int remainder = a % b;
>     if( remainder == 0 ) return b;
>     a = b;
>     b = remainder;
>   };
> }
> ```
> The `AreRelativelyPrime` method checks whether either value is 0. Only -1 and 1 are relatively prime to 0, so if a or b is 0, the method returns `true` only if the other value is -1 or 1.

>The code then calls the `GCD` method to get the greatest common divisor of `a` and `b`. If the greatest common divisor is -1 or 1, the values are relatively prime, so the method returns `true`. Otherwise, the method returns `false`.

>Now that you know how the method works, implement it and your testing code in your favorite programming language. Did you find any bugs in your initial version of the method or in the testing code? Did you get any benefit from the testing code?

```javascript
let areRelativelyPrime = (a, b) => {
  if (a === 0) return b === 1 || b === -1;
  if (b === 0) return a === 1 || a === -1;

  const gcd = GCD(a, b);
  return gcd === 1 || gcd === -1;
};

let GCD = (a, b) => {
  [a, b] = [Math.abs(a), Math.abs(b)];
  if (a === 0) return b;
  if (b === 0) return a;

  while (true) {
    let remainder = a % b;
    if (remainder === 0) return b;
    [a, b] = [b, remainder];
  }
};
```

### Problem 8.9
> Exhaustive testing actually falls into one of the categories black-box, white-box, or gray-box. Which one is it and why?

Exhaustive tests are black-box tests because they don’t rely on knowledge of what’s going on inside the method they are testing.

### Problem 8.11
> Suppose you have three testers: Alice, Bob, and Carmen. You assign numbers to the bugs so the testers find the sets of bugs {1, 2, 3, 4, 5}, {2, 5, 6, 7}, and {1, 2, 8, 9, 10}. How can you use the Lincoln index to estimate the total number of bugs? How many bugs are still at large?

- Alice/Bob: 5 × 4 ÷ 2 = 10
- Alice/Carmen: 5 × 5 ÷ 2 = 12.5
- Bob/Carmen: 4 × 5 ÷ 1 = 20
- Rough estimate of bugs: (10 + 12.5 + 20) ÷ 3 ≈ 14

### Problem 8.12
> What happens to the Lincoln estimate if the two testers don't find any bugs in common? What does it mean? Can you get a "lower bound" estimate of the number of bugs?

Without any bugs in common the math produces a divide by zero condition and you will have no idea about how many bugs there are. You can still generate a lower bound by pretending they found one bug in common.
